README.md, before:

# Link in Bio - Modern Portfolio

A stunning, modern link-in-bio portfolio built with **Next.js 14**, featuring
glassmorphism design, smooth animations, and responsive layout. Perfect for
content creators, developers, and professionals who want to showcase their
social presence and latest content.

## Pre-view

<p align="center">
  <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/nayandas69/linkinbio-nextjs/refs/heads/main/public/images/dark.png" alt="Soft Theme Preview" width="40%"/>
  <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/nayandas69/linkinbio-nextjs/refs/heads/main/public/images/light.png" alt="Light Theme Preview" width="40%"/>
</p>

![Next Js](https://img.shields.io/badge/Next.js-14-black?style=for-the-badge&logo=next.js)
![React](https://img.shields.io/badge/React-18-blue?style=for-the-badge&logo=react)
![TypeScript](https://img.shields.io/badge/TypeScript-5-blue?style=for-the-badge&logo=typescript)
![Tailwind CSS](https://img.shields.io/badge/Tailwind_CSS-3-38B2AC?style=for-the-badge&logo=tailwind-css)

## License and Usage

This project is licensed under a **Custom License**.

* ✅ Free to use, modify, and distribute
* ✅ Personal and non-commercial use allowed
* ❌ **Commercial use or resale requires author’s permission**
* ❌ Do not remove author credits from the source code
* ❌ Do not claim original authorship or misrepresent attribution

> Full license terms are available in the [LICENSE](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/nayandas69/linkinbio-nextjs/refs/heads/main/LICENSE) file.

## Author

**Nayan Das**

* GitHub: [@nayandas69](https://github.com/nayandas69)
* YouTube: [@dasnayan69](https://youtube.com/@dasnayan69)
* Email: [nayanchandradas@hotmail.com](mailto:nayanchandradas@hotmail.com)

## Features

### **Modern Design**

- **Glassmorphism UI** with backdrop blur effects
- **Dark/Light mode** toggle with system preference detection
- **Smooth animations** powered by Framer Motion
- **Responsive design** optimized for all devices
- **Gradient backgrounds** with animated elements

### **Social Integration**

- **6 Active social platforms** in a single row layout
- **18+ Extended social icons** available (Facebook, Instagram, X, LinkedIn,
  TikTok, WhatsApp, Telegram, Snapchat, Bluesky, Mastodon, Tumblr, Messenger)
- **Custom SVG icons** with platform-specific colors
- **Easy activation** - simply uncomment desired social platforms
- **Hover tooltips** with smooth animations
- **Direct links** to all your social profiles
- **Accessibility support** with proper ARIA labels

### **Blog Carousel**

- **Auto-playing carousel** with manual navigation
- **YouTube video integration** with modal popup
- **Touch gestures** touch/swipe navigation for blog carousel on mobile devices
- **Category and duration badges**
- **Smooth transitions** between slides

### **Analytics & Performance**

- **Vercel Analytics** integration for visitor tracking
- **Vercel Speed Insights** for performance monitoring
- **Real-time performance metrics**
- **Core Web Vitals** tracking
- **Zero configuration** analytics setup

### **Environment Configuration**

- **Environment variables** support with `.env.local`
- **Google Search Console** verification setup
- **Secure configuration** management
- **Development/Production** environment separation
- **Example configuration** file included

### **Performance**

- **Next.js 14** with App Router
- **Image optimization** with Next.js Image component
- **Font optimization** with Google Fonts
- **SEO optimized** with proper metadata
- **TypeScript** for type safety

## Quick Start

### Prerequisites

- **Node.js** 18.0 or higher
- **npm** 8.0 or higher

### Installation

1. **Clone the repository**

   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/nayandas69/linkinbio-nextjs.git
   cd linkinbio-nextjs
   ```

2. **Install dependencies**

   ```bash
   npm install
   ```

3. **Set up environment variables**

   ```bash
   # Copy the example environment file
   cp .env.example .env.local

   # Edit .env.local with your actual values
   # Add your Google Search Console verification code
   ```

4. **Add your images** Place your images in the `public/images/` folder:
   - `profile.jpg` - Your profile picture
   - `favicon.jpg` - Website favicon
   - `blog1.png`, `blog2.png`, `blog3.png` - Blog thumbnails

5. **Start development server**

   ```bash
   npm run dev
   ```

6. **Open your browser** Navigate to
   [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000)

## Tech Stack

| Technology                | Version | Purpose                         |
| ------------------------- | ------- | ------------------------------- |
| **Next.js**               | 14.0+   | React framework with App Router |
| **React**                 | 18.0+   | UI library                      |
| **TypeScript**            | 5.0+    | Type safety                     |
| **Tailwind CSS**          | 3.3+    | Utility-first CSS framework     |
| **Framer Motion**         | 10.16+  | Animation library               |
| **Lucide React**          | 0.294+  | Icon library                    |
| **Vercel Analytics**      | Latest  | Visitor tracking                |
| **Vercel Speed Insights** | Latest  | Performance monitoring          |

## Environment Variables

Create a `.env.local` file in your project root:

```bash
# Google Search Console Verification Code
# Get this from Google Search Console -> Settings -> Ownership verification
GOOGLE_VERIFICATION_CODE=your-google-verification-code-here

# Optional: Additional configuration
# NEXT_PUBLIC_SITE_URL=https://yourdomain.com
# NEXT_PUBLIC_AUTHOR_NAME=Your Name
```

### Getting Google Verification Code:

1. Go to [Google Search Console](https://search.google.com/search-console)
2. Add your website property
3. Go to **Settings** → **Ownership verification**
4. Choose **HTML tag** method
5. Copy the `content` value from the meta tag
6. Add it to your `.env.local` file

## Customization

### **Personal Information**

Edit `app/page.tsx` to update:

- Name and bio text
- Social media links and URLs
- Blog post data and YouTube video IDs

### **Social Links**

Update the `socialLinks` array in `app/page.tsx`:

```typescript
const socialLinks = [
  {
    name: "GitHub",
    url: "https://github.com/yourusername",
    icon: GitHubIcon,
    bgColor: "bg-gray-800",
  },
  // Add more platforms...
]
```

### **Extended Social Icons**

To activate additional social platforms:

1. **Uncomment desired icons** in `components/social-icons.tsx`:

   ```typescript
   // Remove /* */ around the icons you want to use
   export const InstagramIcon: React.FC<IconProps> = ({ size = 24, className = "" }) => (
     // Icon SVG code
   )
   ```

2. **Uncomment imports** in `app/page.tsx`:

   ```typescript
   import {
     InstagramIcon,
     FacebookIcon,
     // Add other icons you uncommented
   } from "@/components/social-icons"
   ```

3. **Use extended social links array** by replacing `socialLinks` with
   `extendedSocialLinks`

### **Available Extended Icons:**

- Facebook, Instagram, X (Twitter), LinkedIn
- TikTok, WhatsApp, Telegram, Snapchat
- Bluesky, Mastodon, Tumblr, Messenger

### **Blog Posts**

Update the `blogData` array with your content:

```typescript
const blogData = [
  {
    id: 1,
    title: "Your Blog Post Title",
    description: "Your blog post description...",
    videoId: "YouTube_VIDEO_ID",
    thumbnail: "/images/your-thumbnail.png",
    category: "Your Category",
    duration: "10:30",
  },
  // Add more posts...
]
```

### **Styling**

- **Colors**: Modify `tailwind.config.ts` for custom color schemes
- **Animations**: Adjust Framer Motion settings in components
- **Layout**: Update responsive breakpoints and spacing

## Responsive Design

The application is fully responsive with optimized layouts for:

- **Desktop** (1024px+): Full layout with all features
- **Tablet** (768px-1023px): Adapted spacing and sizing
- **Mobile** (320px-767px): Touch-optimized interface

## Dark Mode

Automatic dark mode support with:

- **System preference detection**
- **Manual toggle** with persistent storage
- **Smooth transitions** between themes
- **Optimized colors** for both modes

## Scripts

| Command                | Description               |
| ---------------------- | ------------------------- |
| `npm run dev`          | Start development server  |
| `npm run build`        | Build for production      |
| `npm run start`        | Start production server   |
| `npm run lint`         | Run ESLint                |
| `npm run type-check`   | Run TypeScript checks     |
| `npm run format:check` | Run Prettier checks       |
| `npm run format`       | Format code with Prettier |

## Deployment

### **Vercel (Recommended)**

1. Push your code to GitHub
2. Connect your repository to [Vercel](https://vercel.com)
3. Add environment variables in Vercel dashboard
4. Deploy automatically with zero configuration
5. **Analytics and Speed Insights** are automatically enabled

### **Other Platforms**

- **Netlify**: Build command: `npm run build`, Publish directory: `.next`
- **Railway**: Supports Next.js out of the box
- **DigitalOcean**: Use App Platform with Node.js

## Performance

- **Lighthouse Score**: 95+ across all metrics
- **Core Web Vitals**: Optimized for excellent user experience
- **Image Optimization**: Automatic WebP/AVIF conversion
- **Code Splitting**: Automatic with Next.js App Router
- **Real-time Monitoring**: Vercel Speed Insights integration

## Contributing

1. **Fork** the repository
2. **Create** a feature branch (`git checkout -b feature/amazing-feature`)
3. **Commit** your changes (`git commit -m 'Add amazing feature'`)
4. **Push** to the branch (`git push origin feature/amazing-feature`)
5. **Open** a Pull Request

## Acknowledgments

- **Next.js Team** for the amazing framework
- **Vercel** for hosting and deployment
- **Tailwind CSS** for the utility-first approach
- **Framer Motion** for smooth animations
- **Lucide** for beautiful icons

---

⭐ **Star this repository** if you found it helpful!

🐛 **Found a bug/suggestion?**
[Open an issue](https://github.com/nayandas69/linkinbio-nextjs/issues)

---

## 💖 Support This Project

If you find this project helpful and want to support its ongoing development:

> 🛒 **Buy the project** or support me on **Patreon** to help keep it alive and maintained.

🎯 **Patreon**: [https://www.patreon.com/nayandas69](https://www.patreon.com/nayandas69)
📧 Or contact me directly: [nayanchandradas@hotmail.com](mailto:nayanchandradas@hotmail.com)

Your support means a lot! 🙏

Commit message:

feat: add verified badge next to user name with tooltip
- Add custom blue verification badge icon in social-icons.tsx
- Display badge next to 'Your Name' with hover/click tooltip
- Tooltip shows 'Profile Your Name identity verified'
- Responsive design with smooth animations

Closes #10

README.md, after:

# Link in Bio - Modern Portfolio

A stunning, modern link-in-bio portfolio built with **Next.js 14**, featuring
glassmorphism design, smooth animations, and responsive layout. Perfect for
content creators, developers, and professionals who want to showcase their
social presence and latest content.

## Pre-view

<p align="center">
  <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/nayandas69/linkinbio-nextjs/refs/heads/main/public/images/dark.png" alt="Soft Theme Preview" width="40%"/>
  <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/nayandas69/linkinbio-nextjs/refs/heads/main/public/images/light.png" alt="Light Theme Preview" width="40%"/>
</p>

![Next Js](https://img.shields.io/badge/Next.js-14-black?style=for-the-badge&logo=next.js)
![React](https://img.shields.io/badge/React-18-blue?style=for-the-badge&logo=react)
![TypeScript](https://img.shields.io/badge/TypeScript-5-blue?style=for-the-badge&logo=typescript)
![Tailwind CSS](https://img.shields.io/badge/Tailwind_CSS-3-38B2AC?style=for-the-badge&logo=tailwind-css)

## License and Usage

This project is licensed under a **Custom License**.

- ✅ Free to use, modify, and distribute
- ✅ Personal and non-commercial use allowed
- ❌ **Commercial use or resale requires author’s permission**
- ❌ Do not remove author credits from the source code
- ❌ Do not claim original authorship or misrepresent attribution

> Full license terms are available in the
> [LICENSE](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/nayandas69/linkinbio-nextjs/refs/heads/main/LICENSE)
> file.

## Author

**Nayan Das**

- GitHub: [@nayandas69](https://github.com/nayandas69)
- YouTube: [@dasnayan69](https://youtube.com/@dasnayan69)
- Email: [nayanchandradas@hotmail.com](mailto:nayanchandradas@hotmail.com)

## Features

### **Modern Design**

- **Glassmorphism UI** with backdrop blur effects
- **Dark/Light mode** toggle with system preference detection
- **Smooth animations** powered by Framer Motion
- **Responsive design** optimized for all devices
- **Gradient backgrounds** with animated elements

### **Social Integration**

- **6 Active social platforms** in a single row layout
- **18+ Extended social icons** available (Facebook, Instagram, X, LinkedIn,
  TikTok, WhatsApp, Telegram, Snapchat, Bluesky, Mastodon, Tumblr, Messenger)
- **Custom SVG icons** with platform-specific colors
- **Verified Badge** with tooltip for authenticity
- **Easy activation** - simply uncomment desired social platforms
- **Hover tooltips** with smooth animations
- **Direct links** to all your social profiles
- **Accessibility support** with proper ARIA labels

### **Blog Carousel**

- **Auto-playing carousel** with manual navigation
- **YouTube video integration** with modal popup
- **Touch gestures** touch/swipe navigation for blog carousel on mobile devices
- **Category and duration badges**
- **Smooth transitions** between slides

### **Analytics & Performance**

- **Vercel Analytics** integration for visitor tracking
- **Vercel Speed Insights** for performance monitoring
- **Real-time performance metrics**
- **Core Web Vitals** tracking
- **Zero configuration** analytics setup

### **Environment Configuration**

- **Environment variables** support with `.env.local`
- **Google Search Console** verification setup
- **Secure configuration** management
- **Development/Production** environment separation
- **Example configuration** file included

### **Performance**

- **Next.js 14** with App Router
- **Image optimization** with Next.js Image component
- **Font optimization** with Google Fonts
- **SEO optimized** with proper metadata
- **TypeScript** for type safety

## Quick Start

### Prerequisites

- **Node.js** 18.0 or higher
- **npm** 8.0 or higher

### Installation

1. **Clone the repository**

   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/nayandas69/linkinbio-nextjs.git
   cd linkinbio-nextjs
   ```

2. **Install dependencies**

   ```bash
   npm install
   ```

3. **Set up environment variables**

   ```bash
   # Copy the example environment file
   cp .env.example .env.local

   # Edit .env.local with your actual values
   # Add your Google Search Console verification code
   ```

4. **Add your images** Place your images in the `public/images/` folder:
   - `profile.jpg` - Your profile picture
   - `favicon.jpg` - Website favicon
   - `blog1.png`, `blog2.png`, `blog3.png` - Blog thumbnails

5. **Start development server**

   ```bash
   npm run dev
   ```

6. **Open your browser** Navigate to
   [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000)

## Tech Stack

| Technology                | Version | Purpose                         |
| ------------------------- | ------- | ------------------------------- |
| **Next.js**               | 14.0+   | React framework with App Router |
| **React**                 | 18.0+   | UI library                      |
| **TypeScript**            | 5.0+    | Type safety                     |
| **Tailwind CSS**          | 3.3+    | Utility-first CSS framework     |
| **Framer Motion**         | 10.16+  | Animation library               |
| **Lucide React**          | 0.294+  | Icon library                    |
| **Vercel Analytics**      | Latest  | Visitor tracking                |
| **Vercel Speed Insights** | Latest  | Performance monitoring          |

## Environment Variables

Create a `.env.local` file in your project root:

```bash
# Google Search Console Verification Code
# Get this from Google Search Console -> Settings -> Ownership verification
GOOGLE_VERIFICATION_CODE=your-google-verification-code-here

# Optional: Additional configuration
# NEXT_PUBLIC_SITE_URL=https://yourdomain.com
# NEXT_PUBLIC_AUTHOR_NAME=Your Name
```

### Getting Google Verification Code:

1. Go to [Google Search Console](https://search.google.com/search-console)
2. Add your website property
3. Go to **Settings** → **Ownership verification**
4. Choose **HTML tag** method
5. Copy the `content` value from the meta tag
6. Add it to your `.env.local` file

## Customization

### **Personal Information**

Edit `app/page.tsx` to update:

- Name and bio text
- Social media links and URLs
- Blog post data and YouTube video IDs

### **Social Links**

Update the `socialLinks` array in `app/page.tsx`:

```typescript
const socialLinks = [
  {
    name: "GitHub",
    url: "https://github.com/yourusername",
    icon: GitHubIcon,
    bgColor: "bg-gray-800",
  },
  // Add more platforms...
]
```

### **Extended Social Icons**

To activate additional social platforms:

1. **Uncomment desired icons** in `components/social-icons.tsx`:

   ```typescript
   // Remove /* */ around the icons you want to use
   export const InstagramIcon: React.FC<IconProps> = ({ size = 24, className = "" }) => (
     // Icon SVG code
   )
   ```

2. **Uncomment imports** in `app/page.tsx`:

   ```typescript
   import {
     InstagramIcon,
     FacebookIcon,
     // Add other icons you uncommented
   } from "@/components/social-icons"
   ```

3. **Use extended social links array** by replacing `socialLinks` with
   `extendedSocialLinks`

### **Available Extended Icons:**

- Facebook, Instagram, X (Twitter), LinkedIn
- TikTok, WhatsApp, Telegram, Snapchat
- Bluesky, Mastodon, Tumblr, Messenger

### **Blog Posts**

Update the `blogData` array with your content:

```typescript
const blogData = [
  {
    id: 1,
    title: "Your Blog Post Title",
    description: "Your blog post description...",
    videoId: "YouTube_VIDEO_ID",
    thumbnail: "/images/your-thumbnail.png",
    category: "Your Category",
    duration: "10:30",
  },
  // Add more posts...
]
```

### **Styling**

- **Colors**: Modify `tailwind.config.ts` for custom color schemes
- **Animations**: Adjust Framer Motion settings in components
- **Layout**: Update responsive breakpoints and spacing

## Responsive Design

The application is fully responsive with optimized layouts for:

- **Desktop** (1024px+): Full layout with all features
- **Tablet** (768px-1023px): Adapted spacing and sizing
- **Mobile** (320px-767px): Touch-optimized interface

## Dark Mode

Automatic dark mode support with:

- **System preference detection**
- **Manual toggle** with persistent storage
- **Smooth transitions** between themes
- **Optimized colors** for both modes

## Scripts

| Command                | Description               |
| ---------------------- | ------------------------- |
| `npm run dev`          | Start development server  |
| `npm run build`        | Build for production      |
| `npm run start`        | Start production server   |
| `npm run lint`         | Run ESLint                |
| `npm run type-check`   | Run TypeScript checks     |
| `npm run format:check` | Run Prettier checks       |
| `npm run format`       | Format code with Prettier |

## Deployment

### **Vercel (Recommended)**

1. Push your code to GitHub
2. Connect your repository to [Vercel](https://vercel.com)
3. Add environment variables in Vercel dashboard
4. Deploy automatically with zero configuration
5. **Analytics and Speed Insights** are automatically enabled

### **Other Platforms**

- **Netlify**: Build command: `npm run build`, Publish directory: `.next`
- **Railway**: Supports Next.js out of the box
- **DigitalOcean**: Use App Platform with Node.js

## Performance

- **Lighthouse Score**: 95+ across all metrics
- **Core Web Vitals**: Optimized for excellent user experience
- **Image Optimization**: Automatic WebP/AVIF conversion
- **Code Splitting**: Automatic with Next.js App Router
- **Real-time Monitoring**: Vercel Speed Insights integration

## Contributing

1. **Fork** the repository
2. **Create** a feature branch (`git checkout -b feature/amazing-feature`)
3. **Commit** your changes (`git commit -m 'Add amazing feature'`)
4. **Push** to the branch (`git push origin feature/amazing-feature`)
5. **Open** a Pull Request

## Acknowledgments

- **Next.js Team** for the amazing framework
- **Vercel** for hosting and deployment
- **Tailwind CSS** for the utility-first approach
- **Framer Motion** for smooth animations
- **Lucide** for beautiful icons

---

⭐ **Star this repository** if you found it helpful!

🐛 **Found a bug/suggestion?**
[Open an issue](https://github.com/nayandas69/linkinbio-nextjs/issues)

---

## 💖 Support This Project

If you find this project helpful and want to support its ongoing development:

> 🛒 **Buy the project** or support me on **Patreon** to help keep it alive and
> maintained.

🎯 **Patreon**:
[https://www.patreon.com/nayandas69](https://www.patreon.com/nayandas69) 📧 Or
contact me directly:
[nayanchandradas@hotmail.com](mailto:nayanchandradas@hotmail.com)

Your support means a lot! 🙏
